1. SQL Query to retrieve the number of students joined for each course?

select course,count(*) from studentcourse group by course;

2. SQL Query to retrieve the number of students joined for each faculty?

select facultyname,count(*) from studentcourse group by facultyname;

3. SQL Query to retrieve the couse wise number of students who paid the fees?

select course,count(feespaid) from studentcourse group by course;


4. SQL Query to retrieve the faculty wise number of students who paid fees?

select facultyname,count(feespaid) from studentcourse group by facultyname;

5. SQL Query to retrieve the faculty wise and course wise number of students who paid fees?

select facultyname,course,count(feespaid) from studentcourse group by facultyname,course;

6. SQL Query to find the below operations on Faculty wise.
  6.1 : total fees collected
  6.2 : average fees collected
  6.3 : Max and min fees collected

Having clause
-------------
clause is used to filter the groups

SQL query to retrieve the number of students enrolled for C and Oracle.

select course,count(*) from studentcourse group by course having course IN ('C','Oracle');

select course,count(*) from studentcourse group by course having course NOT LIKE 'Java';

select course,count(*) from studentcourse where course NOT LIKE 'Java' group by course;

SQL Query to retrive the total fees collected from all the students faculty wise

select facultyname,sum(feespaid) from studentcourse group by facultyname having sum(feespaid)>2000

SQL Query to retrive the total fees collected from all the students faculty wise who enrolled for C Course

select facultyname,sum(feespaid) from studentcourse group by facultyname having course like 'C'; // Wrong
bcz course column is not defined in group by clause

select facultyname,course,sum(feespaid) from studentcourse group by facultyname,course having course like 'C';


select facultyname,sum(feespaid) from studentcourse where course like 'C' group by facultyname;


Order By

clause is used to arrange the data in either ascending or descending order
default order is insertion order if order by clause is not used in the sql query
if order by clause is used in sql query, then it displays the data in ascending order
in order to get the data in descending order, we have to use order by followed by descending

Q) SQL query to retreive the students infor. course wise in ascending order
select * from studentcourse order by course;

Q) SQL query to retreive the students infor. course wise in descending order
select * from studentcourse order by course desc;

Q) SQL Query to retreive the total fees paid for the students who enrolled for C and Oracle in desc

select course,sum(feespaid) from studentcourse group by course having course IN ('C','Oracle') order by course desc;

-- OR --

select course,sum(feespaid) from studentcourse group by course having course IN ('C','Oracle') order by 1 desc;

Q) SQL Query to retreive the total fees paid for the students who enrolled for C and Oracle in fees wise descending order

select course,sum(feespaid) from studentcourse group by course having course IN ('C','Oracle') order by 2 desc;




